I was raised by lesbians in the
mountains and I sort of came like a
forest gnome to New York City a while
back really messed with my head but I
will get into that later I'll start with
when I was eight years old I took a wood
box and I buried a dollar bill a pen and
a fork inside this box in Colorado and I
thought some strange humanoids or aliens
in five hundred years would find this
box and learn about the way our species
exchanged ideas maybe how we ate our
spaghetti
I really didn't know anyways it's kind
of funny because Here I am 30 years
later and I'm still making boxes now at
some point I was in Hawaii I like to
hike and surf and do all that weird
stuff I was making a collage for my MA
and I took a dictionary I ripped it up
and I made it into sort of an Agnes
Martin grid and I poured resin all over
and a bee got stuck now she's afraid of
bees and she's allergic to them so I
poured more resin on the canvas thinking
I could like hide it or something
instead the opposite thing happened it
sort of created a magnification like a
magnifying glass on the dictionary text
so what did I do I built more boxes this
time I started putting electronics frogs
you know strange bottles I'd find in the
street anything I could find because I
was always finding things my whole life
and sort of trying to make relationships
and tell stories between these objects
so I started you know drawing around the
objects and I realized holy moley I can
draw on space I could make like
free-floating lines I was like like the
way you would draw on a dead body in a
crime scene so I took the objects out
and I created my own taxonomy of
invented specimens first botanical but
you can kind of get a sense of then I
made it some weird insects and creatures
it's really fun you know I was like just
drawing on the layers of resin and it
was cool cuz I was actually starting to
have shows and stuff I was making some
money I could take my
girlfriend for dinner and like go to
sizzler good man at some point you
know I got up to the human form
life-size resin sculptures with drawings
of humans inside the layers and this was
great except for one thing I was gonna
die I didn't know what to do because the
resin was gonna kill me and I went to
bed every night thinking about it so I
tried using glass I started drawing on
the layers of glass almost like if you
drew on a window then you put another
window and another window and you had
like all these windows together that
made a three-dimensional composition and
this really worked because I could stop
using the resin so I did this for years
which culminated in a very large work
which I call the triptych the triptych
was largely inspired by her Anand
smosh's Garden of Earthly Delights it's
a painting I don't know if you guys know
it it's in the Prado in Spain do you
guys know this painting yeah good that's
a cool thing so it's kind of ahead of
its time they said so the triptych I'll
kind of walk you through this piece it
weighs 24,000 pounds it's 18 feet long
it's double-sided so it's 36 feet of
composition it's kind of weird so you've
got a well that's the blood fountain you
know to the left you had Jesus in the
locust there's a cave where all these
animal headed creatures travel between
two worlds so that go from the
representational world to this analog
mesh underworld where they're hiding
this is where the animal headed
creatures are by the lighthouse and
they're all about to commit mass suicide
into the ocean the ocean is made up of
thousands of elements well this is a
bird God tied up to a battleship Billy
Graham's in the ocean the horizon from
the oil spill Waldo Osama bin-laden
shelter there's all kinds of weird stuff
that you can find if you look really
hard in the ocean is this is a lady what
kind of lady creature she's coming out
of the ocean and she's spitting oil into
one hand and she has clouds coming out
of her other hand her hands are like
scales and she's sort of like got the
you know like mythological reference of
the earth and cosmos and balance so
that's like one side of the triptych
it's a little narrative thing you know
that's her
hand that she's spitting into and then
when you go to the other side she's got
like a trunk like a bird's beak and
she's spitting clouds out of her trunk
then she has an 18 foot long Serpent's
tail that connects the triptych anyways
her tail catches on fire from the back
of the volcano I don't know why that
happened anyways her tail terminates in
a cycloptic eyeball made out of 1986
terrorist cards have you guys seen those
they were made in the 1980s they're like
baseball cards of terrorists way ahead
of their time I was opening it to my
latest runtime we're in the middle of
two projects one's called psycho
geographies it's about a six-year
project to make a hundred of these
humans each one is an archive of our
culture through our ripped up media and
matter whether it's encyclopedias or
dictionaries or magazines but each one
acts is sort of an archive in the shape
of a human and they travel in groups of
24 or 12 at a time they're like cells
they come together they divide and you
kind of walk through them and it's just
taking me years and each one's basically
a 3,000 pound
microscopes live with a human stuck
inside this one's got a little cave in
his chest that's his head there's the
chest you can kind of see the beginning
I'm going to go down the body for you
all right there's a waterfall coming out
of his chest right there covering his
penis or not penis or whatever it is a
kind of androgynous thing anyways you
know and I'll just kind of take you
quickly through these works because I
can't really explain them for too long
you get a sense there's the layers you
can kind of see it that's like a body
getting split in half this one's got two
heads and it's like communicating
between the two heads you can see like
the pills coming out going into one head
from this weird statue and there's like
a little force seen inside the chest
cavity can you see that anyways this
talks all about these boxes like the
boxes were in this box were in the solar
system is a box this brings you to my
latest box it's a brick box
it's called pioneer works inside of this
box is the physicist neuroscientist a
painter
Eider a radio station a museum a school
a publishing arm to sort of disseminate
all the content that we make there into
the world a garden we shake this box up
and all these people kind of start
hitting each other like particles and I
think that's the way you change the
world is you sort of redefine your
insides and the box that you're living
in and you come together to realize that
we're all in this together that this
delusion of difference this idea of
countries this idea of borders of
religion doesn't work like we're all
really made up of the same stuff in the
same box and if we don't start
exchanging that stuff sweetly and nicely
we're all gonna die real soon thank you
very much
[Applause]